---
layout: post
title: Week 02 Introduction
class: Week 02
week: week02
date: 2014-05-12 00:00:00
---

The second week of class is an introduction to tools and technologies. For some students, it's mostly refresher, so we'll be teaching each other.


 We'll cover:

- working with text using the shell
- characteristics of text editors
- Basic HTML structure, tables, & forms
- Basic CSS rules and selectors
- Single developer Git workflow



# Notes

## Text
The coder's basic medium is **text**. Her basic tools are **shell** and a **text editor**

## Command line

At the bottom of every computer is the Command Line Interface (CLI). It is the most basic user interface.

Patterns and expectations for interacting with CLI: very few! *Affordance* is what a machine invites you to do with it. CLI's have very few affordances, so you have to memories the command format and use the built-in help

Every command is an abbreviation and takes options and arguments.

To find help about unix commands:
**man [command]** will give you the help for a command

Example:

```
man ls
```

Here are some common unix commands
**~/**    Home directory
**pwd**   Print working directory
**cd**    Change directory
**/**     Path separator
**ls**    List directory contents
**rm**    Remove a file
**mkdir** Make directory

**ls -alF**  show all files in the long form and the folders


There are a lot of helpful unix cheat sheets and here is one:
http://files.fosswire.com/2007/08/fwunixref.pdf

Here is another one:
http://simpleshell.com/


**BASH** - Bourne Again Shell


## Git

####Git Set Up:
Set up an account on
[Github](http://www.github.com)

Do the refresher at 
[Try Git](https://try.github.io/)


#####Git Basic Vocabulary Words:
* git - a version control tool
* github - a collaboration website
* repository - All the changes to set of files and folders
* markdown - a set of symbols ("markup") to specify formatting
* clone - make a local copy of a repository
* pull - bring other people's changes to local repo
* push - share changes
* commit - remember ("Commit to repository") local changes

#####Git Basic Workflow:
0. All work is in a Git repository (repo).
0. Clone to pull new work at the beginning of a project.
0. Pull to receive new updates to a project.
0. Push to send new work back to Git.
0. Conflicts are automatically merged if two files do not have changes on the same line.
0. Conflicts with code on the same line must be handled manually.

#####A GUI browser for github:
Git GUI for [Mac](http://mac.github.com/)

Git GUI for [Windows](http://windows.github.com/)

Better git GUI - Atlassian SourceTree

#####A great resource for understanding Github
[Git for Grown Ups](http://24ways.org/2013/git-for-grownups/)

#####Using github considerations:
- Balance

- Isolation & Safety vs Sharing with the team

- Risk - Trying things and playing vs Reliability

####Git Arguments:
Finding help on Git:  **git help**

Git Status:   **git status**

Ask git for help on a particular sub command for example: git help status

Never put a repository in a repository.

A helpful diagram for thinking about Git is:

* shell or local changes
* staging area
* repository
*to share the work, push it to the Github repository (origin)

If we are building off existing work, we often start by cloning the repository


**git clone**   To clone a git repository


The smallest change creates a working copy of the file in shell.  When you have finished with the changes, add the files to the repository.


**git add**     Adds a files with changes to the staging area

A commit collects the files that have been added.  A commit is meaningful piece of work

**git commit -m** Commits the changes to the repository

After you have committed the changes to your local branch, if you want to push your commits to Github use:

**git push**

To pull updated files from Github into an existing repository:

**git pull**

Besides the online videos, a useful git resource is the Git Pro pdf which can be found here:
https://github.s3.amazonaws.com/media/progit.en.pdf


####Generating Secure Encryption Keys:
Web encryption happens by exchanging keys which Github requires
**SSH**    - Secure Shell
**HTTPS** - HTTP Secure

In order to use the encryption you have to generate the secure shell keys.  Here is the page:
https://help.github.com/articles/generating-ssh-keys
